hey I'm robbing Sidr do me a favor and
introduce yourselves
absolutely I'm Jenny Durbin I'm vice
president of corporate communications
for JetBlue Airways hi I'm Torri Nevel
I'm a manager of communication foreplay
operations at double Airways and I'm
Phil watski on it with MW group are you
here in here yes we're here in New York
so talk to us about why you're here
tonight well we're honoured obviously to
be even considered for silver and we
have it on our calendars as Oscars so
that so the brand is very much alive and
well community we're here tonight
representing the project that we worked
on last summer it was a union challenge
for our pilot group and many people may
not know this but JetBlue is the only
airline the only major airline that's
completely non-union we enjoy a direct
relationship with all of our crew
members and we get a huge business
benefit out of that we are more flexible
and fast to market with other with
things for customers but really it's
about our culture we want to continue
working directly with each other and not
have a third party manage communications
or any efforts in challenge so as a 12
year old airline we had our first major
challenge in the Union field and
we came together and built a program to
inform pilots what their choices were
and why we believe that a direct
relationship is in the best interest of
everybody what happened
well after we found out about the
challenge and that it was occurring we
sat down as a team and we started to
kind of build a schedule from beginning
to the end of the program when we knew
that the vote would happen right and we
sat down we created not only kind of
some target dates for communications and
things we knew he needed to happen but
we also formed a team of specialists
interdisciplinary team of specialists to
support us in our efforts which was very
important to all of us and then after we
built the team we filled in all the gaps
throughout the time period with varying
topics of interest to the pilot things
that would educate them things that
would empower them to make a decision
sure they would feel informed we really
wanted to be very factual and very
honest that's very much a part of the
JetBlue culture integrity and honesty
and that kind of transparent attitude
was very important so that's that's kind
of how we built the campaign so I think
the the lead-up in terms of the planning
phase from when we were notified of the
Election Day with just under a month and
then deductions lasted roughly yeah it
was a pretty quick big brain to turn all
of this around yeah yeah and it was
something where you know very much in
line with what Corey was talking about
we want to communicate those those
values that are so sure integrity and
also caring but but also one of the
challenges that you have to deal with
when you have a transitory group because
pilots are constantly you know it's not
like there's a headquarters and folks
can tactical exactly so picture so it's
how do you reach them and that was
really one of the main challenges we
encountered and then also you know
what's really important to them
understanding those things and then
making sure that communications were not
only on point but in a way to you know
make sure they triggered discussion and
then in making sure that we were able to
engage at a high level with you know key
executives and also having online means
of finding things out so we had posters
and bases we had
postcards that went to homes we had a
mobile optimized website called Jeff
moon factor we look floated 15 different
videos - and everything from you know
direct sort of straight talk from
executives about you know hot questions
to QA you know that that were submitted
and actually on the website there were
over a hundred questions submitted and
we answered just about up
so within 48 hours so it was something
where it was a very robust program I
will say to a lot of credit goes to the
JetBlue executive team to I'm in over 30
basic events over this time so literally
carving out an enormous amount of time
in their schedule to visit all four of
the team basis so obviously there's one
big result yes and that was that was the
highest voter turnout in National
Mediation board history and the largest
percentage win of any company that
successfully kept a direct relationship
so how long ago when did this in August
it was mid-august
how's the feeling now I think we've
gained a lot of momentum from all the
efforts that we put in obviously was a
very robust and intense time for well
communications but it also reinforced to
us that the most effective form of
communication is always going to be face
to face nothing is ever going to replace
that and you know there are legitimate
concerns that all crew members have and
being able to communicate what our plan
is to address those in the way that we
would like to them the way that gives a
benefit to our culture as well as to our
product now we have to live up to that
and I think over the last year we made a
lot of changes I think a lot of pilots
are satisfied I think there are still
legitimate concern
the relationship not just with pilots
but with all three members so I'll ask
this of each of you one thing that you
think PR pro should take away from this
campaign
you have to believe that you're doing
the right things
okay
you have to surround yourself with the
team of people that you trust and that
are experts in their niche areas to
support the overall go to campaign
great and I'd say really take the time
to understand where your key audiences
you know what's important to them how do
they prefer to receive communication and
then actually executing on that here at
midnight tonight congratulations with
the audio thank you so much thanks for
hanging out with us for a few minutes
good luck